= Flume input/output plugin for Fluent

== Overview

This is a plugin for fluentd[https://github.com/fluentd] event collector.  This plugin adds the Flume[https://github.com/apache/flume] compatible interface to fluentd.

== What's Flume?

Flume[https://github.com/apache/flume] is a distributed, reliable, and available service for efficiently collecting, aggregating, and moving large amounts of log data.

It uses Thrift[http://thrift.apache.org/], a cross-language RPC framework, to communicate between clients and servers.

== What's Flume plugin for fluent?

The Flume plugin for fluentd, which enables fluentd to talk the Flume protocol.  Flume protocol is defined as follows, in Thrift-IDL format:

  typedef i64 Timestamp
  
  enum Priority {
    FATAL = 0,
    ERROR = 1,
    WARN = 2,
    INFO = 3,
    DEBUG = 4,
    TRACE = 5
  }
  
  enum EventStatus {
    ACK = 0,
    COMMITED = 1,
    ERR = 2
  }
  
  struct ThriftFlumeEvent {
    1: Timestamp timestamp,
    2: Priority priority,
    3: binary body,
    4: i64 nanos,
    5: string host,
    6: map<string,binary> fields
  }
  
  # Instead of using thrift's serialization, we just assume the contents are serialized already.
  struct RawEvent {
    1: binary raw
  }
  
  service ThriftFlumeEventServer {
    oneway void append( 1:ThriftFlumeEvent evt ),
    oneway void rawAppend( 1:RawEvent evt),
    EventStatus ackedAppend( 1: ThriftFlumeEvent evt ),
    
    void close(),
  }

A value that is stored in the ThriftFlumeEvent.fields map is used as fluentd 'tag'.  A key of the value enables be specified by users as configuration parameter.

== How to use?

fluent-plugin-flume contains both input and output.

== Flume Input

Please add the following configurations to fluent.conf.

  # Flume input
  <source>
    type flume
    port 56789
  </source>

These options are supported.

* port: port number (default: 56789)
* bind: bind address (default: 0.0.0.0)
* server_type: server architecture either in 'simple', 'threaded', 'thread_pool', (default: simple)
* is_framed: use framed protocol or not (default: false)
* tag_field: key name of fluentd 'tag' that is stored in ThriftFlumeEvent.fields (default: nil)
* default_tag: default fluentd 'tag' (default: 'category')
* add_prefix: prefix string, added to the tag (default: nil)

== Flume Output

Please add the following configurations to fluent.conf.  This allows fluentd to output its logs into another Flume server.  Note that fluentd conveys semi-structured data while Flume conveys unstructured data.  Thus the plugin translates semi-structured data into JSON data and conveys it to Flume.

  # Flume output
  <match *>
    type flume
    host flume-host.local
    port 56789
  </match>

These options are supported.

* host: host name or address (default: localhost)
* port: port number (default: 35863)
* timeout: thrift protocol timeout (default: 30)
* remove_prefix: prefix string, removed from the tag (default: nil)

== Contributors

== Copyright

Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2012 Treasure Data, Inc.
License::   Apache License, Version 2.0
